 Speaking on Tuesday, the party’s president, Akhilesh Yadav, said the fragrance, named the Scent of Socialism, was intended to embody the spirit of their left-wing politics. According to Indian media, the perfume took two scientists four months to create. They gathered 22 ingredients from across the country, including rose, jasmine, sandalwood, and saffron, and experimented with various combinations before deciding on the final fragrance. Asked about the aims of the scent, Yadav said, “When people use it, they will smell socialism. It will end hatred in 2022.” In photos shared online, party faithful can be seen proudly holding the boxed perfume. Its packaging features an image of Samajwadi’s leader, their red and green signature colors, and their logo, a bicycle. समाजवादी पार्टी के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष एवं पूर्व मुख्यमंत्री श्री अखिलेश यादव ने आज यहां कहा कि पिछले चुनावों के समय मतदाता सूची में जोड़े और काटे गये नामों का विवरण चुनाव आयोग से मिल जाता था लेकिन इस बार ऐसी सूची का प्रकाशन नहीं किया जा रहा है।https://t.co/xJKG4xJgNHpic.twitter.com/qv73CwGFBP— Samajwadi Party (@samajwadiparty) November 9, 2021 समाजवादी पार्टी के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष एवं पूर्व मुख्यमंत्री श्री अखिलेश यादव ने आज यहां कहा कि पिछले चुनावों के समय मतदाता सूची में जोड़े और काटे गये नामों का विवरण चुनाव आयोग से मिल जाता था लेकिन इस बार ऐसी सूची का प्रकाशन नहीं किया जा रहा है।https://t.co/xJKG4xJgNHpic.twitter.com/qv73CwGFBP Lasts 7 days Juma to Juma 😂😂#SamajwadiPerfumepic.twitter.com/WWGhAks5Cc— AgentVinod (@AgentVinod03) November 9, 2021 Lasts 7 days Juma to Juma 😂😂#SamajwadiPerfumepic.twitter.com/WWGhAks5Cc  Samajwadi, the main opposition party in Uttar Pradesh, has reportedly told its members to fragrance themselves with the scent before attending public meetings. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma has dismissed the perfume’s launch as a cheap stunt. “The smell of hatred, communalism, appeasement, criminality, and corruption will not be removed from the previous governments by any fragrance,” Sharma said on Wednesday, referencing Samajwadi’s term in state governance. If you like this story, share it with a friend! 