A video published on social networks by Turkish media shows a crowd of MPs punching each other right in the middle of the session hall, as emotions clearly run high during the 2022 budget talks. It all started when MPs were discussing the funds allocated to the Interior Ministry. Meclis'te Soylu ile CHP'li vekiller arasında gerginlik: Ortalık karıştı, AKP'li vekiller CHP'li vekillere saldırdı CHP'li vekiller Meclis'te Soylu'ya Sezgin Baran Korkmaz'ın uçağını kullandığı için tepki gösterince Soylu 'hesap vereceksiniz' diyerek vekilleri tehdit etti. pic.twitter.com/f5Lz0VGySB— Yol TV (@YolTV) December 8, 2021 Meclis'te Soylu ile CHP'li vekiller arasında gerginlik: Ortalık karıştı, AKP'li vekiller CHP'li vekillere saldırdı CHP'li vekiller Meclis'te Soylu'ya Sezgin Baran Korkmaz'ın uçağını kullandığı için tepki gösterince Soylu 'hesap vereceksiniz' diyerek vekilleri tehdit etti. pic.twitter.com/f5Lz0VGySB During the talks, a member of the major opposition Republican People’s Party (CHP), Erkan Aydın, asked interior minister Suleyman Soylu, about his alleged links to a Turkish businessman currently under arrest in Austria on charges leveled by both Turkey and the US that include bribery and fraud. The question sparked the minister’s anger, and he called the MP a liar and a fraud, prompting a heated verbal exchange between the two. Despite the interference of the CHP faction’s deputy head, the tensions were soon running high and it was not long before the war of words spiraled into a fist fight between the CHP MPs and those from President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party (AKP). It is not the first such incident, though, since the Turkish parliament has frequently become an arena for brawls between lawmakers. Last month, two MPs engaged in a flight during a parliamentary session over personal insults that saw both opponents calling each other “terrorists.” In March, a much more intense brawl broke out, which saw some lawmakers even climbing onto their desks to throw punches, after an opposition MP criticized Erdogan. In 2017, the budget talks saw several days of consecutive brawls. İşte Meclis'teki kavga anlarıhttps://t.co/tKF4IPGMbMpic.twitter.com/MQNe08Sr9C— Cumhuriyet (@cumhuriyetgzt) March 4, 2020 İşte Meclis'teki kavga anlarıhttps://t.co/tKF4IPGMbMpic.twitter.com/MQNe08Sr9C 